feat: add SCIM docs (#2098)
ory/docs: docs/kratos/manage-identities/50_scim.mdx

[reach out](https://www.ory.sh/contact/).

:::

SCIM (System for Cross-domain Identity Management) is a standard for automating the exchange of user identity information between
identity domains or IT systems. It is designed to make it easier to manage user identities in cloud-based applications and
services. SCIM provides a common schema for representing user identities and a RESTful API for managing them. This allows
organizations to automate the provisioning and de-provisioning of user accounts across multiple systems, reducing the
administrative burden and improving security.

In the Ory Network, SCIM is available at the organization level. This means that within one project, you can have multiple
organizations with different SCIM configurations. Each organization can have its own SCIM settings, including the ability to
enable or disable SCIM, set the base URL for SCIM endpoints, and configure authentication methods. This allows organizations to
tailor their SCIM implementation to meet their specific needs and requirements.

Identities that are provisioned through the SCIM API are automatically created in the Ory Network and added to that SCIM server's

> organization. The provisioned identities can the log in through any of the organization's configured SSO methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
organization. The provisioned identities can then log in through any of the organization's configured SSO methods.
```

---
id: scim
title: SCIM
sidebar_label: SCIM
---

> # SCIM (System for Cross-domain Identity Management)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# System for Cross-domain Identity Management 
```

> :::info
> 
> SCIM provisioning is only available in Ory Network and are not supported in self-hosted Ory Kratos. If you have any questions, or
> if you would like more information about transitioning to Ory Network, please don't hesitate to
> [reach out](https://www.ory.sh/contact/).
> 
> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::info

SCIM provisioning is only available in Ory Network and via the Ory Enterprise License (OEL). If you have any questions, please [reach out](https://www.ory.sh/contact/).

:::
```

administrative burden and improving security.

In the Ory Network, SCIM is available at the organization level. This means that within one project, you can have multiple
organizations with different SCIM configurations. Each organization can have its own SCIM settings, including the ability to
enable or disable SCIM, set the base URL for SCIM endpoints, and configure authentication methods. This allows organizations to
tailor their SCIM implementation to meet their specific needs and requirements.

Identities that are provisioned through the SCIM API are automatically created in the Ory Network and added to that SCIM server's
organization. The provisioned identities can the log in through any of the organization's configured SSO methods.

```mdx-code-block
import Mermaid from "@site/src/theme/Mermaid"

<Mermaid
  chart={`
flowchart TD
    P(Project) --> O1(Organization 1)
    P(Project) --> O(Organization 2)
    P(Project) --> O3(Organization 3)

    O --> S(SCIM Server)
    O <-->|belongs to| I(Identity)
    S -->|provisions| I
`}
/>
```

## Set up identity provisioning with SCIM

To set up identity provisioning with SCIM, follow these steps:

### Create an organization

> If you haven't already, create an [organization](../organizations) in the Ory Network. This organization will be used to manage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you haven't already, create an [organization](../organizations). This organization will be used to manage
```

- **Data mapping**: When the client creates or updates a user, the supplied data will be applied to the identity based on this
  data mapping.

### Use the SCIM server

Once you have created a SCIM server, you can use it to provision identities. The SCIM server will provide a set of endpoints that
allow the creation and management of user identities and groups.

The following endpoints are available:

- **User endpoints**
  - `GET /Users`: Retrieve a list of users.
  - `POST /Users`: Create a new user.
  - `GET /Users/{id}`: Retrieve a specific user by ID.
  - `PUT /Users/{id}`: Update a specific user by ID.
  - `PATCH /Users/{id}`: Partially update a specific user by ID.
  - `DELETE /Users/{id}`: Delete a specific user by ID.
- **Group endpoints**
  - `GET /Groups`: Retrieve a list of groups.
  - `POST /Groups`: Create a new group.
  - `GET /Groups/{id}`: Retrieve a specific group by ID.
  - `PUT /Groups/{id}`: Update a specific group by ID.
  - `PATCH /Groups/{id}`: Partially update a specific group by ID.
  - `DELETE /Groups/{id}`: Delete a specific group by ID.

### Known limitations

> - SCIM provisioning is only available in Ory Network and are not supported in self-hosted Ory Kratos.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

already mentioned at the top
